The President:
Hi, everybody.
Our top priority as a nation is
reigniting the true engine of
our economic growth -- a
rising, thriving middle class.
And few things define what it is
to be middle class in America
more than owning your
own cornerstone of the
American Dream: a home.
Today, seven years after the
real estate bubble burst,
triggering the worst economic
crisis since the Great
Depression and costing millions
of responsible Americans their
jobs and their homes, our
housing market is healing.
Sales are up.
Foreclosures are down.
Construction is expanding.
And thanks to rising home
prices over the past year,
1.7 million more American
families have been able to come
up for air, because they're
no longer underwater on
their mortgages.
From the day I took office,
I've made it a priority to help
responsible homeowners and
prevent the kind of recklessness
that helped cause this
crisis in the first place.
My housing plan has already
helped more than two million
people refinance
their mortgages,
and they're saving an
average of $3,000 per year.
My new consumer watchdog agency
is moving forward on protections
like a simpler, shorter mortgage
form that will help to keep
hard-working families
from getting ripped off.
But we've got more work to do.
We've got more responsible
homeowners to help --
folks who have never
missed a mortgage payment,
but aren't allowed to refinance;
working families who have done
everything right, but still
owe more on their homes
than they're worth.
Last week, I nominated a man
named Mel Watt to take on these
challenges as the head of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency.
Mel's represented the people of
North Carolina in Congress for
20 years, and in that time, he
helped lead efforts to put in
place rules of the road that
protect consumers from dishonest
mortgage lenders, and give
responsible Americans the chance
to own their own home.
He's the right
person for the job,
and that's why Congress
should do its job,
and confirm him without delay.
And they shouldn't stop there.
As I said before, more than two
million Americans have already
refinanced at today's low
rates, but we can do a lot
better than that.
I've called on Congress to give
every responsible homeowner the
chance to refinance,
and with it,
the opportunity to
save $3,000 a year.
That's like a $3,000 tax cut.
And if you're one of the
millions of Americans who could
take advantage of that, you
should ask your representative
in Congress why they
won't act on it.
Our economy and our housing
market are poised for progress
-- but we could do so much
more if we work together.
More good jobs.
Greater security for
middle-class families.
A sense that your
hard work is rewarded.
That's what I'm fighting for --
and that's what I'm going to
keep fighting for as long
as I hold this office.
Thank you.
And have a great weekend.